Sounds generally like a good plan, but there are a few things I think you should think through more carefully and clarify as you start to work on this.

I'm deducting 0.5 points because you didn't provide sufficient detail for some of your plans (see comments below) and because it seems like there may be some confusion about how the original paper's analysis was done. Also, for this class, you need to use Stata for the final documents you turn in (you can use R too if you want to compare and troubleshoot findings, but all the final code needs to be in Stata. This is so grading can be equitable across all students in the class and to achieve one of the course's goals, which is to familiarize students with stata). Here are some specific comments to  help you think through your plans:

You won't be able to use the 2011 indicator to account for the methodology change, because it is perfectly colinear with the ACA Medicaid expansion. The authors are treating Medicaid expansion as a binary variable that happens in 2011 (years before 2011 take a value of 0 and years after take a value of 1). So you won't be able to add another indicator variable for the cell phone methodology change in 2011, since that will be colinear with the ACA indicator
I'm not sure what you mean by some of the anticipated mitigated challenges -- e.g. what do you mean by "complex weights critical"? Did the original authors not use the weights? Did they use them incorrectly? What challenge are you overcoming?
I'm also not sure what "no barriers" means in your extension. Are you referring to the data from the American Lung Association the authors mention in the paper? Do you have access to that data / is it public data?
When you say "state x year FEs" do you mean using two way fixed effects instead of the pre/post and treated/control indicators of the standard DiD? The 2 way FE version is usually used when there is time-varying treatment (e.g., when each state is treated at a different time). The original authors treat all the states as being treated in 2011. Is your plan to instead give each state its own indicator for when it was treated between 2011 and 2015 so each state enters treatment status at a different time? If so, this is a more complex design that will also use up more degrees of freedom (and has more assumptions) so you may have trouble making sense of the coefficients and standard errors. You definitely can do this approach, it just might be too complex of a design for this particular research question and the models may fail or give odd results.
Let me know if you have any questions!

Kacie Dragan , Nov 10 at 8:35am